===============
Changes: 2.0.15
===============

Highlights of new features in version 2.0.15, added since the last
public release of PETSc (2.0.Beta.13). See details in the sections
below.

-  Added support for shared version of PETSc libraries for several
   machines to enable faster linking and smaller executables
-  Added new parallel block row matrix format, improved efficiency
   for block diagonal formats
-  Added a suite of routines to help manage the mappings between an
   application-defined ordering of variables and the ordering used by
   PETSc for matrices and vectors
-  Expanded users manual information for performance tuning and
   profiling
-  The option -log_summary now summarize of message-passing activity
   as well as flop rates.
-  Running the test suite now requires much less disk space.
-  Example programs are in the process of being reorganized into
   tutorials and tests (see, e.g., petsc/src/sles/examples/tutorials
   for tutorial-style examples for the linear solvers).
-  The HTML version of the PETSc man pages now provides indices
   (organized by both concepts and routine names) to tutorial
   examples.

.. rubric:: General

-  Added support for shared libraries for the machines PETSC_ARCH =
   [sun4,solaris,alpha,IRIX,IRIX64,linux] to enable faster linking
   and smaller executables. To compile the shared libraries, install
   PETSc as usual and then execute the command make BOPT=g shared
   from the PETSc home directory (or use whatever BOPT you like). You
   can remove the shared libraries with the command make BOPT=g
   deleteshared Note: Shared libraries can also be used with
   PETSC_ARCH=freebsd and PETSC_ARCH=hpux if some minor modifications
   are made. For detailed instructions, see the files
   ${PETSC_DIR}/bmake/${PETSC_ARCH}/base. Please write to us at
   petsc-maint@mcs.anl.gov if you encounter any problems when using
   the shared libraries.
-  Users must now ALWAYS set the environmental variable PETSC_DIR to
   indicate the PETSc home directory. Previously, PETSC_DIR was set
   within the various makefiles within the PETSc installation.
   However, since this causes problems for shared libraries on some
   machines, the environmental variable PETSC_DIR is now used
   instead.
-  Added global variables for use in debuggers:

   -  PetscGlobalRank - processor's rank in MPI_COMM_WORLD
   -  PetscGlobalSize - number of processors in MPI_COMM_WORLD

-  For complex numbers versions (e.g., BOPT=g_complex): Added a
   global variable defining the imaginary number "i": PETSC_i

.. rubric:: TS (Time Stepping Module)

-  Changed TS_PSEUDO_POSITION_INDEPENDENT_TIMESTEP ->
   TS_PSEUDO_POSIND -
-  Changed TSPseudoSetPositionIndependentTimeStep() ->
   TSPseudoSetPosIndTimeStep(). Even Barry couldn't stand names that
   long :-)

.. rubric:: SNES (Nonlinear Solvers):

-  The user can now set parameters used in matrix-free approximations
   of Jacobian-vector products, with the options -snes_mf_err <err> :
   square root of relative error in computing function -snes_mf_umin
   <umin>: minimum iterate parameter or by calling the routine
   SNESSetMatrixFreeParameters().
-  Added the option -snes_mf_operator, which allows the user to apply
   the default matrix-free Jacobian but retain the user-provided
   Jacobian preconditioner matrix.
-  Added the routine SNESGetTolerances() to extract the various
   parameters used for convergence testing.
-  Initialized iteration counter to 0 for successive calls to SNES
   solvers.
-  Changed the names for SNES runtime options associated with
   particular solvers to the forms -snes_eq_ls_<parameter_name> -
   nonlinear equations, line search method
   -snes_eq_tr_<parameter_name> - nonlinear equations, trust region
   method -snes_um_ls_<parameter_name>- unconstrained minimization,
   line search method -snes_um_tr_<parameter_name> - unconstrained
   minimization, trust region method Run program with -help for a
   detailed list of options.

.. rubric:: SLES (Linear Solvers): See PC and KSP

-  Changed the default linear solvers from GMRES(30) with Jacobi
   preconditioning to uniprocessor: GMRES(30) with ILU(0)
   preconditioning multiprocessor: GMRES(30) with block Jacobi
   preconditioning, where there is 1 block per processor, and each
   block is solved with ILU(0) See the users manual for additional
   options for the block Jacobi method. You can still employ the old
   default at runtime with the option -pc_type jacobi

.. rubric:: KSP (Krylov subspace methods):

-  Added routines KSPComputeEigenvalues(),
   KSPComputeEigenvaluesExplicitly() and runtime options
   -ksp_compute_eigenvalues, -ksp_plot_eigenvalues,
   -ksp_compute_eigenvalues_explictly and
   -ksp_plot_eigenvalues_explicitly for users interested in examining
   the eigenvalues of the preconditioned operator to better
   understand the convergence of a chosen iterative method.
-  Changed KSPSetCalculateExtremeSingularValues() ->
   KSPSetComputeExtremeSingularValues() - Changed
   KSPSetCalculateResidual() -> KSPSetComputeResidual()

.. rubric:: PC (Preconditioners):

-  Added the routine PCSetModifySubMatrices(), which allows the user
   to set an optional routine for modifying the entries of the
   submatrices that arise in certain subdomain-based preconditioners
   (ASM, block Jacobi, block Gauss-Seidel).

.. rubric:: MAT (Matrices):

-  Eliminated routine MatGetSubmatrix(); now use MatGetSubMatrices()
   even when extracting just 1 submatrix.
-  Added routine MatDestroyMatrices()
-  Fixed bug in MatGetSubMatrices() for successive calls for matrices
   having different nonzero structure.
-  Added routine MatGetBlockSize(). - Changed routine MatGetInfo() so
   that it returns more information. See man page for details.
-  Changed usage of MatGetReordering() and MatRegisterOrdering(); see
   man pages.
-  Changed the prefix used for matrix operation names within
   MatShellSetOperation() and MatHasOperation(): MAT_<operation> ->
   MATOP_<operation> For example, MAT_MULT -> MATOP_MULT.

.. rubric:: DA (Distributed Arrays):

.. rubric:: VEC (Vectors):

.. rubric:: IS (Index Sets):

-  Changed ISCreateSeq() to ISCreateGeneral()
-  Changed ISCreateStrideSeq() to ISCreateStride()
-  Added routine ISCreateBlock() to create a blocked index set. See
   the man page for details and related routines.

.. rubric:: Draw (Graphics):

-  Added -draw_x_private_colormap option that causes PETSc to
   allocate a separate colormap for PETSc graphics windows. This
   prevents bad contour plots due to Netscape altering the default
   color map.
-  You can now zoom in and out of contour plots using the option
   -draw_pause -1 and left and center mouse buttons.
-  The option -draw_contour_grid will display the underlying grid on
   a contour plot.

.. rubric:: VIEWERS:

-  Added routine ViewerGetFormat().
-  Added options -viewer_matlab_machine and -viewer_matlab_port
-  Changed ASCII_FORMAT_xxx to VIEWER_FORMAT_ASCII_xxx and
   ASCII_FORMAT_INFO_DETAILED to VIEWER_FORMAT_ASCII_INFO_LONG
-  Changed BINARY_FORMAT_xxx to VIEWER_FORMAT_BINARY_xxx
-  PETSc now provides basic support for VRML viewers. Currently, one
   can draw surface contours of vector fields with the routine
   DFVecDrawTensorSurfaceContour(). Note that the VRML utilities will
   be expanded and the interface will change in the near future.

.. rubric:: SYSTEM:

.. rubric:: EVENT LOGGING:

.. rubric:: FORTRAN INTERFACE:

-  Changed PETSC_NULL_CHAR to PETSC_NULL_CHARACTER - Replaced
   PETSC_DEFAULT with
-  You no longer need MPE to build PETSc.
-  Included petsc/include/options.h within petsc/include/petsc.h -
-  Changed distributed array name from RA to DA. Also changed
   DAGlobalToLocal() to DAGlobalToLocalBegin() followed by
   DAGlobalToLocalEnd().
-  Changed usage of KSPBuildSolution() slightly to avoid copying when
   not needed.
-  Remove first argument (rflag) from ALL options database commands,
   i.e., OptionsGetInt(0,0,"-m",&m) => OptionsGetInt(0,"-m",&m), etc.
-  Changed the way memory tracing is done. When compiling with BOPT=g
   it is the default, but you may turn it off with -notrmalloc. When
   compiling with BOPT=O it is by default off, but one may turn it on
   with -trmalloc or -trdump.
