=============
Changes: 3.12
=============


.. rubric:: General:

-  PetscRoundReal() has been removed, since the math routine round()
   is not supported on all systems: perhaps use PetscCeilReal() or
   PetscFloorReal()<\li>
-  The legacy and cmake compile systems (make all-legacy and
   all-cmake) are removed
-  make gnumake is now make libs
-  PetscArraycmp() should be used instead of PetscMemcmp(), it takes
   a count argument instead of a byte argument
-  PetscArraycpy() should be used instead of PetscMemcpy(), it takes
   a count argument instead of a byte argument
-  PetscArrayzero() should be used instead of PetscMemzero(), it
   takes a count argument instead of a byte argument
-  PetscArraymove() should be used instead of PetscMemmove(), it
   takes a count argument instead of a byte argument
-  The ./configure options -with-gnu-compilers and
   -with-vendor-compilers are removed
-  The ./configure option --with-avx512-kernels defaults to true now
   so the manually optimized AVX-512 kernels are used by default
-  The order ./configure tests compilers has changed so there may be
   a different compiler selected if you do not provide them
-  Added --with-64-bit-blas-indices that will switch to 64 bit
   indices when using MKL libraries for BLAS/LAPACK and build
   OpenBLAS with this support
-  Changed PETSC_DEPRECATED() to PETSC_DEPRECATED_FUNCTION() and
   PETSC_DEPRECATED_TYPEDEF() to match naming of
   PETSC_DEPRECATED_ENUM() and PETSC_DEPRECATED_MACRO
-  -help now causes the printing of the current value and the newly
   set value for PetscOptionsInt(), etc
-  PetscFunctionListPrintTypes() takes an additional final argument
   after the current value, the set value
-  PetscCalloc*() now calls the system calloc() routine instead of
   malloc() plus memzero()
-  -malloc is now marked as deprecated, use -malloc_debug instead
-  -malloc_log and -malloc_log_threshold are now -malloc_view and
   -malloc_view_threshold
-  PetscMallocDebug() is now PetscMallocSetDebug()
-  PetscMallocDumpLog() is now PetscMallocView(), see also
   PetscMallocViewSet()
-  PetscMallocSetDumpLogThreshold() and PetscMallocSetDumpLog() are
   now PetscMallocViewSet()
-  With -malloc_test or -malloc_debug allocated memory is initialized
   with NaN to detect use of uninitialized numerical arrays
-  PetscMallocSet() now takes three arguments instead of two
-  Moved PetscCUBLASGetHandle() to a separate header file
   petscublas.h
-  Moved VecCUDA*-routines from petsccuda.h into petscvec.h. Removed
   petsccuda.h

.. rubric:: Configure/Build:

-  C++ dialect is now auto-detected (C++14 first and then C++11). One
   can disable this check using --with-cxx-dialect=0, or force it to
   only check for C++11 using --with-cxx-dialect=C++11
-  New option --download-hpddm to enable PCHPDDM and KSPHPDDM

.. rubric:: IS:

.. rubric:: PetscDraw:

.. rubric:: PF:

.. rubric:: Vec:

-  VecCUDAGet/RestoreArrayReadWrite() changed to
   VecCUDAGet/RestoreArray()
-  VecViennaCLGet/RestoreArrayReadWrite() changed to
   VecViennaCLGet/RestoreArray()
-  Added VecGet/RestoreArray/ReadInPlace() to get array of a vector
   where it is without copying from GPU to CPU.

.. rubric:: PetscLayout:

-  Added PetscLayoutCreateFromSizes()
-  Added PetscLayoutCreateFromRanges()
-  Calling PetscLayoutSetUp() twice with different sizes is now
   forbidden

.. rubric:: PetscSection:

.. rubric:: VecScatter & PetscSF:

-  The default VecScatter implementation is changed to PetscSF. In
   other words, the default VecScatter shares PetscSF's MPI
   communication code. One can use -vecscatter_type mpi1 to go back
   to the old implementation.
-  Added new InsertMode MAX_VALUES and MIN_VALUES support in
   VecScatterBegin/End and VecGhostUpdateBegin/End.
-  PetscSFComputeMultiRootOriginalNumbering: add output argument with
   the number of multiroots for convenience
-  Added an enum type PetscSFPattern for SF graph patterns. Valid
   values include PETSCSF_PATTERN_ALLGATHER, PETSCSF_PATTERN_GATHER
   and PETSCSF_PATTERN_ALLTOALL.
-  Added PetscSFSetGraphWithPattern() to set SF graphs with
   predefined patterns.
-  Added PetscSFComposeInverse() to compose a new SF by putting the
   inverse of an SF under the another SF.
-  Added MPI-3.0 neighborhood collectives support. One can use
   command line option -sf_type neighbor to let SF use MPI-3.0
   neighborhood collectives for communication instead of the default
   MPI_Send/Recv.
-  PetscSF is now CUDA-aware. The rootdata, leafdata arguments passed
   to SF routines can be either GPU pointers or CPU pointers. Use a
   CUDA-aware MPI and option -use_gpu_aware_mpi to enable it.
-  VecScatter is also CUDA-aware. You can do VecScatter on CUDA
   vectors without copying them from GPU to CPU. Again, you need a
   CUDA-aware MPI and option -use_gpu_aware_mpi.
-  Removed PetscSFCreateFromZero. Instead, users should use
   PetscSFCreate() to create an SF, and then set its graph with
   PetscSFSetGraphWithPattern(..,PETSCSF_PATTERN_GATHER).
-  Renamed PetscSFGetRanks() to PetscSFGetRootRanks().

.. rubric:: Mat:

-  MatShift(Mat,0); will no longer silently insure there are no
   missing diagonal entries. (Previously it would put 0 into any
   diagonal entry that was missing)
-  Renamed MatComputeExplicitOperator() into MatComputeOperator() and
   MatComputeExplicitOperatorTranspose() into
   MatComputeOperatorTranspose(). Added extra argument to select the
   desired matrix type
-  MatLoad() now supports loading dense matrices from HDF5/MAT files.
-  Added new Mat type, MATKAIJ, for matrices that can be expressed in
   a particular Kronecker (tensor) product form.
-  Added MatCompositeSetScalings() to set separate scaling factors
   for component matrices.
-  Added a Boolean option -mat_composite_merge_mvctx to merge Mvctx
   of component matrices to optimize communication in MatMult() for
   ADDITIVE matrices. Default is true.
-  Added MATSEQDENSECUDA class to use GPUs for dense linear algebra.

.. rubric:: PC:

-  Renamed PCComputeExplicitOperator() into PCComputeOperator().
   Added extra argument to select the desired matrix type
-  Added support for PCCHOLESKY with MATSOLVERMUMPS and SBAIJ
   matrices with bs greater than 1
-  Added support for PCLU with MATSOLVERMKL_PARDISO (resp.
   MATSOLVERMKL_CPARDISO) and SEQBAIJ (resp. MPIBAIJ) matrices
-  Added support for PCCHOLESKY with MATSOLVERMKL_PARDISO (resp.
   MATSOLVERMKL_CPARDISO) and SEQSBAIJ (resp. MPISBAIJ) matrices
-  Added new preconditioner PCHPDDM, cf.
   src/ksp/ksp/examples/tutorials/ex71.c or
   src/snes/examples/tutorials/ex56.c

.. rubric:: KSP:

-  Renamed KSPComputeExplicitOperator() into KSPComputeOperator().
   Added extra argument to select the desired matrix type
-  KSPCGGLTRGetMinEig(KSP,PetscReal*) ->
   KSPGLTRGetMinEig(KSP,PetscReal*)
-  KSPCGGLTRGetLambda(KSP,PetscReal*) ->
   KSPGLTRGetLambda(KSP,PetscReal*)
-  KSPCGNASH, KSPCGSTCG, KSPCGGLTR -> KSPNASH, KSPSTCG, KSPGLTR
-  Added new Krylov solver KSPHPDDM, cf.
   src/ksp/ksp/examples/tutorials/ex75.c or
   src/ksp/ksp/examples/tutorials/ex9.c

.. rubric:: SNES:

-  Changed SNES_CONVERGED_TR_DELTA to SNES_DIVERGED_TR_DELTA with a
   negative value to indicate diverged, unclear why it was ever
   positive since tiny trust region would indicate trouble, not
   converged

.. rubric:: SNES:

-  -snes_mf no longer turns the preconditioner to none; to use it
   generally you will also need -pc_type none

.. rubric:: SNESLineSearch:

.. rubric:: TS:

-  Added tangent linear models for Runge-Kutta methods
-  Added second-order adjoint solvers based on Runge-Kutta methods
   and Theta methods
-  Improved the usage of first-order adjoint solvers in an
   optimization context. (The TS object can be reused in the
   optimization loop)
-  Changed the APIs for integrand evaluations and corresponding
   derivative evaluations. TSSetCostIntegrand() is deprecated.
   (Instead a quadrature TS is used to handle the callbacks)
-  TSTrajectory creates a unique name for folders that store the
   checkpoint data. Users can rerun adjoint codes without worrying
   about the folder names, and run multiple codes under the same
   directory.
-  Added support for using finite-differencing (and coloring) to
   approximate the Jacobians needed by the adjoint solvers.
   -snes_fd_color can be used for both implicit and explicit methods.

.. rubric:: DM/DA:

-  Add DMGetLocalSection() to be used in preference to
   DMGetSection().
-  Add DMSetLocalSection() to be used in preference to
   DMSetSection().
-  DMGetDefaultSF() replaced with DMGetSectionSF().
-  DMSetDefaultSF() replaced with DMSetSectionSF().
-  DMCreateDefaultSF() replaced with DMCreateSectionSF().
-  DMAddLabel() now increments the reference count of the DMLabel.
-  DMRemoveLabel() now destroys the DMLabel if the output argument is
   NULL.
-  Add DMRemoveLabelBySelf() which looks up the DMLabel by itself,
   removes from DM and destroys.

.. rubric:: DMPlex:

-  Rename DMPlexCreateSpectralClosurePermutation() to
   DMPlexSetClosurePermutationTensor()
-  Add DMPlexFindVertices() for vertex coordinates -> DAG point
   lookup
-  Add DMPlexGetOverlap() to get the partition overlap

.. rubric:: DMNetwork:

-  Changed prototypes for DMNetworkSetSizes()

.. rubric:: PetscViewer:

-  Removed PetscViewerHDF5{Get,Set}AIJNames() which are likely not
   really needed
-  PetscViewerHDF5SetCollective() and -viewer_hdf5_collective can be
   used to switch between independent and collective transfer mode.
   Defaults now to false (independent).

.. rubric:: SYS:

-  Added PetscCheckDupsInt() to check if a PetscInt array has dups.
-  Added an argument to PetscBinaryRead() and
   PetscBinarySynchronizedRead() to return the number of items read.

.. rubric:: AO:

.. rubric:: Sieve:

.. rubric:: Fortran:
