src/docs/sphinx_docs/index.rst, before:

=============================
PETSc |version| Documentation
=============================

.. raw:: html

   <a href="https://my.siam.org/Store/Product/viewproduct/?ProductId=32850137">Ed Bueler, PETSc for Partial Differential Equations: Numerical Solutions in C and Python</a>

   as a <a href="https://play.google.com/store/books/details/Ed_Bueler_PETSc_for_Partial_Differential_Equations?id=tgMHEAAAQBAJ">Google Play E-book</a>

PETSc, pronounced PET-see (`/ˈpɛt-siː/ <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Help:IPA/English#Key>`__), is a suite of
data structures and routines for the scalable (parallel) solution of scientific
applications modeled by partial differential equations. It supports MPI, and GPUs through
CUDA or OpenCL, as well as hybrid MPI-GPU parallelism. PETSc (sometimes called PETSc/Tao)
also contains the Tao optimization software library.

PETSc is developed as :ref:`open-source <doc_license>`, requests and contributions are welcome.

===========
Get Started
===========

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   overview/index
   install/index
   faq/index

===========
Get Working
===========

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   manual/index
   guides/guide_to_examples
   changes/index
   citing


* `TAO Users Manual <https://www.mcs.anl.gov/petsc/petsc-current/docs/tao_manual.pdf>`__
* `Manual Pages <docs/index.html>`__
* `Function Index <docs/manualpages/singleindex.html>`__
* `Examples Index <docs/manualpages/help.html>`__

============
Get Involved
============

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   contact/index
   developers/index
   miscellaneous/index

.. raw:: html

    <a href="../../../src/binding/petsc4py/docs/usrman/index.html">PETSc4py documentation</a>

==========================================
Related toolkits/libraries that use PETSc
==========================================

      -  `ADflow <https://github.com/mdolab/adflow>`__ An Open-Source
         Computational Fluid Dynamics Solver for Aerodynamic and
         Multidisciplinary Optimization
      -  `Chaste <https://www.cs.ox.ac.uk/chaste/>`__ Cancer, Heart and
         Soft Tissue Environment
      -  `code_aster <https://www.code-aster.org/V2/spip.php?rubrique2​>`__
         open source general purpose finite element code for solid and
         structural mechanics
      -  `COOLFluiD <https://github.com/andrealani/COOLFluiD>`__ CFD,
         plasma and multi-physics simulation package
      -  `DAFoam <https://dafoam.github.io>`__ Discrete adjoint solvers
         with `OpenFOAM <https://openfoam.com>`__ for aerodynamic
         optimization
      -  `DEAL.II <https://www.dealii.org/>`__ C++ based finite element
         simulation package
      -  `FEniCS <https://fenicsproject.org/>`__ Python based finite
         element simulation package
      -  `Firedrake <https://www.firedrakeproject.org/>`__ Python based
         finite element simulation package
      -  `Fluidity <https://fluidityproject.github.io/>`__ a finite
         element/volume fluids code
      -  `FreeFEM <https://freefem.org/>`__ finite element PDE solver
         with embedded domain specific language
      -  `hIPPYlib <https://hippylib.github.io>`__ FEniCS based toolkit
         for solving large-scale deterministic and Bayesian inverse
         problems governed by partial differential equations
      -  `libMesh <https://libmesh.github.io>`__ adaptive finite element
         library
      -  `MFEM <https://mfem.org/>`__ lightweight, scalable C++ library
         for finite element methods
      -  `MLSVM <https://github.com/esadr/mlsvm>`__, Multilevel Support
         Vector Machines with PETSc.
      -  `MoFEM <http://mofem.eng.gla.ac.uk/mofem/html>`__, An open
         source, parallel finite element library
      -  `MOOSE - Multiphysics Object-Oriented Simulation
         Environment <https://mooseframework.inl.gov/>`__ finite element
         framework, built on top of libMesh and PETSc
      -  `OOFEM <http://www.oofem.org>`__ object oriented finite element
         library
      -  `OpenFOAM <https://develop.openfoam.com/modules/external-solver>`__
         Available as an extension for linear solvers for OpenFOAM
      -  `OpenFVM <http://openfvm.sourceforge.net/>`__ finite volume
         based CFD solver
      -  `PermonSVM <http://permon.it4i.cz/permonsvm.htm>`__ support
         vector machines and
         `PermonQP <http://permon.it4i.cz/permonqp.htm>`__ quadratic
         programming
      -  `PetIGA <https://bitbucket.org/dalcinl/petiga/>`__ A framework
         for high performance Isogeometric Analysis
      -  `PHAML <https://math.nist.gov/phaml/>`__ The Parallel
         Hierarchical Adaptive MultiLevel Project
      -  `preCICE <https://www.precice.org>`__ - A fully parallel
         coupling library for partitioned multi-physics simulations
      -  `PyClaw <https://www.clawpack.org/pyclaw/>`__ A massively
         parallel, high order accurate, hyperbolic PDE solver
      -  `SLEPc <https://slepc.upv.es/>`__ Scalable Library for
         Eigenvalue Problems

Commit message:

Docs: index update with news and additional info section

src/docs/sphinx_docs/index.rst, after:

=============================
PETSc |version| Documentation
=============================

.. admonition:: News: New Book on PETSc

  **PETSc for Partial Differential Equations: Numerical Solutions in C and Python**, by Ed Bueler, is available.

    - `Physical book from SIAM Press <https://my.siam.org/Store/Product/viewproduct/?ProductId=32850137>`__
    - `Google Play E-book <https://play.google.com/store/books/details/Ed_Bueler_PETSc_for_Partial_Differential_Equations?id=tgMHEAAAQBAJ>`__

.. admonition:: News: New paper on PETSc with GPUs

  `Toward Performance-Portable PETSc for GPU-based Exascale Systems <https://arxiv.org/abs/2011.00715>`__

.. admonition:: News: petsc4py Support

  Source code for `petsc4py <https://www.mcs.anl.gov/petsc/petsc4py-current/docs/>`__, developed by Lisandro Dalcin, is now distributed with the PETSc source and supported by the PETSc team and mailing lists.

PETSc, pronounced PET-see (`/ˈpɛt-siː/ <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Help:IPA/English#Key>`__), is a suite of
data structures and routines for the scalable (parallel) solution of scientific
applications modeled by partial differential equations. It supports MPI, and GPUs through
CUDA or OpenCL, as well as hybrid MPI-GPU parallelism. PETSc (sometimes called PETSc/Tao)
also contains the Tao optimization software library.

PETSc is developed as :ref:`open-source <doc_license>`, requests and contributions are welcome.


===========
Get Started
===========

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   overview/index
   install/index
   faq/index

===========
Get Working
===========

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   manual/index
   guides/guide_to_examples


* `TAO Users Manual <https://www.mcs.anl.gov/petsc/petsc-current/docs/tao_manual.pdf>`__
* `Manual Pages <docs/index.html>`__
* `Function Index <docs/manualpages/singleindex.html>`__
* `Examples Index <docs/manualpages/help.html>`__

============
Get Involved
============

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   contact/index
   developers/index

======================
Additional Information
======================

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   changes/index
   citing
   miscellaneous/index

==========================================
Related toolkits/libraries that use PETSc
==========================================

      -  `ADflow <https://github.com/mdolab/adflow>`__ An Open-Source
         Computational Fluid Dynamics Solver for Aerodynamic and
         Multidisciplinary Optimization
      -  `Chaste <https://www.cs.ox.ac.uk/chaste/>`__ Cancer, Heart and
         Soft Tissue Environment
      -  `code_aster <https://www.code-aster.org/V2/spip.php?rubrique2​>`__
         open source general purpose finite element code for solid and
         structural mechanics
      -  `COOLFluiD <https://github.com/andrealani/COOLFluiD>`__ CFD,
         plasma and multi-physics simulation package
      -  `DAFoam <https://dafoam.github.io>`__ Discrete adjoint solvers
         with `OpenFOAM <https://openfoam.com>`__ for aerodynamic
         optimization
      -  `DEAL.II <https://www.dealii.org/>`__ C++ based finite element
         simulation package
      -  `FEniCS <https://fenicsproject.org/>`__ Python based finite
         element simulation package
      -  `Firedrake <https://www.firedrakeproject.org/>`__ Python based
         finite element simulation package
      -  `Fluidity <https://fluidityproject.github.io/>`__ a finite
         element/volume fluids code
      -  `FreeFEM <https://freefem.org/>`__ finite element PDE solver
         with embedded domain specific language
      -  `hIPPYlib <https://hippylib.github.io>`__ FEniCS based toolkit
         for solving large-scale deterministic and Bayesian inverse
         problems governed by partial differential equations
      -  `libMesh <https://libmesh.github.io>`__ adaptive finite element
         library
      -  `MFEM <https://mfem.org/>`__ lightweight, scalable C++ library
         for finite element methods
      -  `MLSVM <https://github.com/esadr/mlsvm>`__, Multilevel Support
         Vector Machines with PETSc.
      -  `MoFEM <http://mofem.eng.gla.ac.uk/mofem/html>`__, An open
         source, parallel finite element library
      -  `MOOSE - Multiphysics Object-Oriented Simulation
         Environment <https://mooseframework.inl.gov/>`__ finite element
         framework, built on top of libMesh and PETSc
      -  `OOFEM <http://www.oofem.org>`__ object oriented finite element
         library
      -  `OpenFOAM <https://develop.openfoam.com/modules/external-solver>`__
         Available as an extension for linear solvers for OpenFOAM
      -  `OpenFVM <http://openfvm.sourceforge.net/>`__ finite volume
         based CFD solver
      -  `PermonSVM <http://permon.it4i.cz/permonsvm.htm>`__ support
         vector machines and
         `PermonQP <http://permon.it4i.cz/permonqp.htm>`__ quadratic
         programming
      -  `PetIGA <https://bitbucket.org/dalcinl/petiga/>`__ A framework
         for high performance Isogeometric Analysis
      -  `PHAML <https://math.nist.gov/phaml/>`__ The Parallel
         Hierarchical Adaptive MultiLevel Project
      -  `preCICE <https://www.precice.org>`__ - A fully parallel
         coupling library for partitioned multi-physics simulations
      -  `PyClaw <https://www.clawpack.org/pyclaw/>`__ A massively
         parallel, high order accurate, hyperbolic PDE solver
      -  `SLEPc <https://slepc.upv.es/>`__ Scalable Library for
         Eigenvalue Problems
