==============
Changes: 2.3.2
==============


.. rubric:: General:

-  We have a new Semi-Lagrangian advection solver using the method of
   characteristics to the ``src/contrib/semiLagrange``, contributed
   by `Richard Katz <mailto:katz@ldeo.columbia.edu>`__ and `Marc
   Spiegelman <mailto:mspieg@ldeo.columbia.edu>`__ of Columbia
   University. Examples are included.
-  Added C99 complex support. [check configure changes below]

.. rubric:: Vec:

.. rubric:: Mat:

-  Added MatCreateScatter() and MATSCATTER to easily construct
   efficient "restriction operators"
-  Removed MatConvertRegister() and friends, added ``(*convertfrom)`` to
   Mat function table to replace it

.. rubric:: PC:

-  Added PCGALERKIN and PCGalerkinSetRestriction/Interpolation() to
   allow easy creating of Galerkin-like preconditioners.
-  Added PCGetOperatorsSet()
-  Added support for the KSP/PC to auto-create the Mat(s) for you.
   (Which you usally set with KSP/PCSetOperators()). See manual page
   for KSP/PCGetOperators(). Note this is slightly speculative code
   currently.
-  PCSetOperators()/KSPSetOperators() now do reference counting on
   the operators you pass in. Current usage will work, however this
   means you NO LONGER need to keep a reference to the operators
   around until the KSP/PC object is destroyed.

.. rubric:: KSP:

-  Added KSPDefaultConvergedSetUIRNorm() and
   -ksp_default_converged_initial_residual_norm to go back to the pre
   PETSc 2.3.1 of determing relative tolerance for convergence.
-  Added KSPGetOperatorsSet()

.. rubric:: config/configure.py:

-  Now c++ complex version requires the options'
   '--with-scalar-type=complex --with-clanguage=cxx'. Specyfing only
   '--with-scalar-type=complex' will default to '--with-clanguage=c'
   i.e uses C99 complex support.

.. rubric:: SNES:

-  The convergence test functions for SNES now pass the current
   iteration in as the second argument. Also the convergence test
   routine is called after the initial function evaluation in SNES
   but before the first Newton step is computed.
-  Added SNESSetKSP().

.. rubric:: TS:

.. rubric:: DA:

.. rubric:: DMMG:

.. rubric:: SYS:

-  Removed PetscRandomType from the prototype of PetscRandomCreate().
-  Added PetscRandomSetType(), PetscRandomGetValueReal() and
   PetscRandomGetValueImaginary().
-  Replaced RANDOM_DEFAULT, RANDOM_DEFAULT_REAL and
   RANDOM_DEFAULT_IMAGINARY, the type of random numbers, with
   PETSCRAND48, PETSCRAND etc.

.. rubric:: AO:

-  AODATA object and associated routines are now deprecated and
   scheduled for future removal

.. rubric:: Fortran:

.. rubric:: `ExternalPackages <https://www.mcs.anl.gov/petsc/miscellaneous/external.html>`__:

-  SPRNG support added.
