============
Changes: 3.5
============


.. rubric:: General:

-  --download-f-blas-lapack is now --download-fblaslapack.
-  PETSc built with --with-precision=__float128 will now by default
   read in binary files that have all 128 bits stored in the file, to
   read in files with 64 bit double use the option
   -binary_read_double
-  PETSc options of complex numbers must be passed as
   [+/-][realnumber][+/-]realnumberi with no spaces, you can no
   longer pass the real and complex part with a comma between them
-  PetscSynchronizedFlush() takes an additional argument, the file
   pointer on rank 0
-  PetscObjectStateQuery() is now corrected with
   PetscObjectStateGet()
-  A new PetscObjectState typedef is used by interface; 64-bit int to
   prevent overflow.
-  The configure option ``--with-dynamic-loading`` has been removed
   since this functionality is automatically available on systems
   that support it. Use the runtime option
   ``-dynamic_library_preload`` for similar functionality.
-  Default location of externalpackages is moved from
   ``PETSC_DIR/externalpackages`` to
   ``PETSC_DIR/PETSC_ARCH/externalpackages``
-  Added ``--with-clean`` option to delete the build files in
   ``PETSC_DIR/PETSC_ARCH`` at the begining of the build
-  The ``__SDIR__`` macro (and ``__INSDIR__``) is no longer used. We
   recommend passing full paths or paths from the project root to the
   compiler so that error messages contain enough context.
-  The "type" argument to ``PetscMalloc2()`` through
   ``PetscMalloc7()``, ``PetscNew()``, and ``PetscNewLog()`` have
   been removed. The type is now inferred from the pointer return
   type. ``PetscMalloc1()`` is now available for allocating arrays,
   and ``PetscCalloc1()`` through ``PetscCalloc7()`` have been added
   for when cleared (zeroed) memory is needed.
-  Moved matlab scripts like PetscBinaryRead.m PetscBinaryWrite.m
   from bin/matlab to share/petsc/matlab

.. rubric:: IS:

-  ISLocalToGlobalMappingCreate() now takes a blocksize. Added
   ISLocalToGlobalMappingApplyBlock() removed
   ISLocalToGlobalMappingBlock() and ISLocalToGlobalMappingUnblock()

.. rubric:: PF:

.. rubric:: Vec:

.. rubric:: VecScatter:

.. rubric:: PetscSection:

-  Now only the F90 binding for VecSetValuesSection() is present

.. rubric:: Mat:

-  Removed third argument to MatNullSpaceRemove(). Use VecDuplicate()
   and VecCopy() if the original Vec must be kept.
-  MatGetRedundantMatrix(Mat mat,PetscInt nsubcomm,MPI_Comm
   subcomm,PetscInt mlocal_red,MatReuse reuse,Mat \*matredundant) is
   replaced by MatRedundantMatrix(Mat mat,PetscInt nsubcomm,MPI_Comm
   subcomm,MatReuse reuse,Mat \*matredundant).
-  MatGetColoring() has been removed and replaced by the MatColoring
   object.

.. rubric:: PC:

-  PCASA has been removed, it never worked properly
-  The documented, but semi-private function
   ``PCMGResidual_Default()`` is now public and named
   ``PCMGResidualDefault()``.
-  PCGAMG default smoother changed from PCJACOBI to PCSOR.
-  Different logic for PCBDDC APIs: added
   PCBDDCSet/GetDirichlet/NeumannBoundariesLocal,
   PCBDDCSetDofsSplittingLocal. Previous call to PCBDDCXXXBoundaries
   should be replaced by PCBDDCXXXBoundariesLocal. The same holds for
   setting the fields split. In all cases, the index sets should have
   the same communicator as the PC.
-  Added PCBDDCSetChangeOfBasisLocalMat for user defined change of
   basis
-  ``PCFieldSplitSchurPrecondition()`` deprecated (replaced in
   Fortran) in favor of ``PCFieldSplitSetSchurPre()``.

.. rubric:: KSP:

-  ``KSPSkipConverged()`` renamed to ``KSPConvergedSkip()``.
-  ``KSPSetOperators()`` no longer has the ``MatStructure`` argument.
   The Mat objects now track that information themselves. Use
   ``KSP/PCSetReusePreconditioner()`` to prevent the recomputation of
   the preconditioner if the operator changed in the way that
   ``SAME_PRECONDITIONER`` did with ``KSPSetOperators()``
-  ``KSPDefaultConverged()``, ``KSPDefaultConvergedDestroy()``,
   ``KSPDefaultConvergedCreate()``,
   ``KSPDefaultConvergedSetUIRNorm()``, and
   ``KSPDefaultConvergedSetUMIRNorm()`` are now
   ``KSPConvergedDefault()``, ``KSPConvergedDefaultDestroy()``,
   ``KSPConvergedDefaultCreate()``,
   ``KSPConvergedDefaultSetUIRNorm()``, and
   ``KSPConvergedDefaultSetUMIRNorm()``. for consistency.

.. rubric:: SNES:

-  The matrix arguments to the user functions provided with
   ``SNESSetJacobian()`` and ``SNESSetPicard()`` are now Mat not
   Mat*.
-  The ``MatStructure`` argument to the user functions provided with
   ``SNESSetJacobian()`` and ``SNESSetPicard()`` are gone.
-  ``SNESSetInitialFunctionNorm()`` is removed as it's not necessary
   given that the norm is cached on the Vec. Use only
   ``SNESSetInitialFunction()``.
-  ``SNESSetFunctionNorm()`` and ``SNESGetFunctionNorm()`` removed.
   ``Use SNESGetFunction()`` and ``VecNorm()`` instead.
-  ``SNESSkipConverged()`` renamed to ``SNESConvergedSkip()``.
-  ``SNESGetPC()``/``SNESSetPC()`` renamed to
   ``SNESGetNPC()``/``SNESSetNPC()``.
-  ``GS`` and \_gs used for nonlinear Gauss-Sidel changed to ``NGS``
   and \_ngs to match all the other nonlinear solver names.

.. rubric:: SNESLineSearch:

.. rubric:: TS:

-  The matrix arguments to the user functions provided with
   ``TSSetRHSJacobian()`` and ``TSSetIJacobian()`` are now Mat not
   Mat*.
-  The ``MatStructure`` argument to the user functions provided with
   ``TSSetRHSJacobian()`` and ``TSSetIJacobian()`` are gone.

.. rubric:: DM/DA:

-  DMDAGetLocalToGlobalMappingBlock() has been removed, the
   DMDAGetLocalToGlobalMapping() now handles both block and non-block
   cases
-  DMDAGetGlobalIndices(DM,PetscInt*,const PetscInt*[]) and
   DMDARestoreGlobalIndices(DM,PetscInt*,const PetscInt*[]) are
   removed, use DMGetLocalToGlobalMapping() to get this information
-  DMADDA has been removed, it never worked correctly
-  The MatType argument is removed from DMCreateMatrix(), you can use
   DMSetMatType() to indicate the type you want used with a DM,
   defaults to MATAIJ
-  ``DMDABoundaryType`` has become ``DMBoundaryType``, and all the
   enumeration values have also been renamed.

.. rubric:: DMPlex:

.. rubric:: PetscViewer:

.. rubric:: SYS:

.. rubric:: AO:

.. rubric:: Sieve:

-  Sieve/DMMesh has been removed entirely. Use DMPlex.

.. rubric:: Fortran:

-  PETSC_DEFAULT_DOUBLE_PRECISION has been replaced with
   PETSC_DEFAULT_REAL

.. rubric:: ExternalPackages:

-  Configure options ``--download-umfpack`` and
   ``--download-cholmod`` to download UMFPACK and CHOLMOD have been
   removed. Use ``--download-suitesparse`` to download these
   packages.
-  Added interface to Pardiso solver in Intel MKL. To use
   MKL_Pardiso, PETSc should be configured with
   ``--blas-lapack-dir=LOCATION_OF_INTEL_MKL           --with-mkl_pardiso-dir=LOCATION_OF_INTEL_MKL``
   and then run the code with
   ``-pc_type lu -pc_factor_mat_solver_package mkl_pardiso``
